535 PROJECT 4 NOTES

When u get back

Cross-shard
0.  Setup the ack msg in protobuf, then set up the participant cluster returning it in leaderbroadcastcommit
1. setup coordinator timeouts, timers, and ack receipts similar to how client does it.
2. test set 3
3. setup abort handles wherever needed(processcommit, leaderbroadcastcommit, execute)

1. The coordinator cluster has a timer for each cross-shard transaction (the time that it waits for the participant cluster to send 
back its vote). Once the timer expires, the leader of the coordinator cluster runs consensus to abort the transaction. 

2.b. Pending Transaction: Similar to intra-shard transactions; the sender has adequate balance, locks are obtained and a sequence 
number is assigned by the leader of the coordinator cluster; yet consensus isn’t achieved (e.g., due to lack of quorum).

2.c. Aborted Transaction: Sufficient balance exists for the sender and locks are obtained along with a designated sequence number 
allowing consensus in the coordinator cluster. However, the transaction is pending in the participant cluster 
(due to a lack of quorum there, so participant doesn't do anything, nor send anything to coordinator), if the timer expires in the 
coordinator cluster, then the coordinator runs consensus to abort the transaction and informs the participant cluster and the 
client about this aborted transaction. client counts this as response i.e doesn't resend. needs ack phase to ensure they received it
(just use an RPC return msg for ack?)

3. For each cross-shard transaction, we might have two records in the datastore (one after the prepare phase and one after the 
commit phase) and each record has its own sequence number. You execute transactions sequentially:

- when you reach a sequence number that is the result of the prepare phase of a cross-shard transaction, you execute the 
transaction while writing on WAL.
- When you reach a sequence number that is the result of the commit phase of a cross-shard transaction, you either undo the 
execution using WAL (if abort) or delete the record on WAL (if commit).

2f+1 commit msgs on coordinator prepare: https://piazza.com/class/m02qzstrzw256g/post/279